[Music]
He returns to the kind and compassionate Hien Tu, who taught us the
Dharma of True Reality. This is evil, which we
should abandon; this is good, which we must strive to cultivate. We are
grateful to her, a woman of immense
compassion and wisdom, who listened to all our suffering and showed us the way
out. We are grateful to her, for she guides us to enlightenment and the path to liberation. We return to the kind and compassionate Hien Tu, who taught
us the Dharma of True Reality. This is evil, which we
should abandon; this is meditation, which we must strive to cultivate. We are
grateful to her, a woman of immense compassion and
wisdom, who listened to all our
suffering and showed us the way out. We make the Bodhi vow, we
always strive diligently,
practicing with compassion and
spreading the Dharma to the world, repaying her kindness.
[Music]
[Applause]
Today, in this great Golden House,
we, the members of the
Golden Youth Club and the Rahula Club,
represent thousands of friends.  The children
in the club sent their teacher a gift
made from the heartfelt gratitude of all of
us. We wish
our teacher good
health so that she can continue to guide
and support us on the path of
practicing Buddhism and cultivating our minds and bodies. We
will always remember her teachings,
always striving for goodness and living strongly so that our
own lives may be better.
We respectfully wish her early attainment of the
Bodhi Vow to benefit all
sentient beings. We
respectfully thank
her. First of all, I would like to thank you, my children. I am
very moved. I am
not
moved by the gift, but by your gratitude.
A person who knows gratitude
will surely know how to repay it, and a person who knows
gratitude and
repays it will live a
virtuous life, a
virtuous life, and will be happy.
You were born into a family, raised by your
parents, and educated by your teachers at school.
That is your good fortune, the blessings
you have accumulated.  From
past lives, you have come to know the
Buddha's teachings. That is a rare and fortunate circumstance, one that involves
many causes and conditions.
You have only come to know the Buddha's teachings
during this long cycle of reincarnation, which
we call the cycle of rebirth
because it never stops.
We leave this body and take another, all
within
this cycle of rebirth. We never reach a
new realm; we go around and around countless,
immeasurable, boundless lifetimes. And when we
understand karma, we have taken the
first step, the first opportunity to leave
it, to escape
this endless cycle of reincarnation. My children, the
greatest teacher
is our Buddha Shakyamuni.
Only our Buddha Shakyamuni can
show
us the path to happiness.
Our parents guide and
raise us, hoping for our
happiness, but they don't know that path. Our
teachers also educate us,
hoping for our wisdom and
contribution, but they don't know that
path either. Only the Buddha knows that,
and that's why he teaches us.  My children, you have taught me that it
is your
masters who have devoted their efforts to cultivating
knowledge, practice, and spiritual cultivation—your masters and the
monks. I am
close to you, bringing the words of your
masters and the monks to you. Today, I receive your affection, and I am very moved and happy. I hope that in your families, you will be good to your grandparents and parents; at school, you will be good to your
teachers; you will be good to your
friends; and in society, you will know how to contribute. That is what
truly makes a person grateful and repaying kindness,
isn't it, my
children? And today, on this 20th of November,
I also send my best wishes to
all your mothers, who are your
first teachers;
to your fathers, who are your
first teachers; to your grandparents, who are
also your first teachers; and
to all
our teachers, above all, your masters and the
monks.  All the
teachers who have taught
us life's knowledge and guided us
towards goodness, so that we may live in a way that does
n't disappoint them,
right? So that
when our teachers think of us, they feel proud
and feel that their efforts in teaching us haven't been in vain.
[Applause]
Good luck, my child, thank you,
Dad.
[Music]